Energy Output Per State Tracker App

The Data and Our Vision.
Sourced data was on energy output of each state on different months and years. We decided to create a tracker with this data, 
so that finding energy usage for states during specific times and from specific producers could be organized and visualized in 
a clean map format. Additionally, we wanted to create a way for users to be able to predict future energy usages of states 
given the current data. 

Data cleaning.
Sourced data was split into multiple sheets in a .xlsx file. Using the purrr package, we were able to merge all the sheets into
one table. Another issue we came upon was the issue with different column formatting on each sheet, where certain years would 
have different names for the same information. Using the coalesce() function, we were able to merge all that information into one
tidy column. Several other data cleansing techniques were utilized to the make the table more visualization ready, such as changing
the names of certain columns to be shorter and converting certain columns to a specific data type. We also only wanted data for the 
states, so we got rid of all the observations regarding the US as a whole and DC.

Files.
Although there are many files, the three files that are important for this project are app.r, R App Script.qmd, and
generation_monthly.xlsx. The R file, app.r, contains the app itself. The qmd file is almost a "rough draft" of the app, as we wanted
to make sure the code worked properly without having to test it within the app itself. Finally, the xlsx is just the data for this
project.

Capabilities.
This app is able to show energy outputs of different states in a clean leaflet format. Simply input a year, month, type of producer,
and energy source, and watch as all the states are displayed with each state being colored in a specific manner to represent how much
energy they used. Additionally, hovering over each state will give a specific number to how much energy output they had in that time
frame specifically. And although the sourced data covers a wide variety of times and energy producers, some information will be missing,
so those states will be colored gray to represent this. Furthermore, our app has an option to predict future data based on our 
current data. Using a linear model, our app can predict energy outputs for future years on different months, producers and energy sources,
just as if we had that data collected already. 